  BETA release notes:
  I might have missed somthing in here, so you should look into my log (log_pr.txt).
  The readme.txt isn't up to date.

Changes since 2.02
  I have include the file 'prboom.inf'. If you right click on it and choose install,
  it registeres the '.rsp' files to prboom and installs some icons into the startmenu.
  You have to start the installation in the final directory.

  I have include some icons in the exe.

  Response files can be called recursive. A sample is included.

  Fixed some high-res bugs.

  The HUD and the message line is scaled.

  You can set a mouse button for moving backward. I use this for my mouse
  config (left key -> forward, right key -> backward).

  New option '-viewangle' to set the angle at which the playerview is drawn,
  ranges from 0-7 in 45 Deg steps.

  Video options like width, height, multiply, useflip and fullscreen are saved
  into the cfg-file.

  There is a new options for video handling:
  vid_noflip        0=use flipping, 1=don't use flipping
                    This may speed up the drawing.

  Found some bugs in video handling, it should be faster now.

  You can select the devices for DirectDraw, DirectSound and StreamMidi.
  This is usefull if you have more than one soundcard or videocard.

  For developers of TC's I have added Andy Baker's stealth monsters. They are
  disabled in this release because they mess up compatibility.

  Joystick support.

  Missile explosions and ressurected enemys are now translucent. This can be
  changed in the cfg-file (missile_explode_trans and vile_ressurect_trans).

  Support for three different translucency maps. Defaults are 25%, 66% and 75%.
  You can use this in dehacked patches.

Changes since 1.03
  New commandline option '-noddraw' if you don't want to use DirectDraw.

  More detailed README.TXT, read it thorougly.

  Fixed ALT getting stuck when ALT-TABing away.

  Fixed problem where mousebuttons get stuck.

  I have replaced the old DOS-Box console with a new Window based one.
  (Inspired by ZDoom)

  I have tweaked the sound-functions a little bit.

  The window moving bug is fixed.

  Removed -grabmouse, because -grabmouse is now default.
  Removed -nomouse, because you can use use_mouse in the cfg-file.

  There are now two ways to play the music. You can choose them with mus_card:
  1   MCI-Midi functions, that's like in PrBoom 1.03 with the temporary mid-file.
  2   Stream-Midi functions, that's without the mid-file but still with Windows-functions.
  Bye default Stream-Midi is used.

  Now the pause-key works. (Inspired by ZDoom)

  If you switch to another application the priority-class is set to idle,
  you can turn this off with '-noidle'. (Taken from ZDoom)

  HIGH-RES !!!!!!!
  Added commandline switches '-width' and '-height', they are limited
  from 320x200 to 1600x1200.

  All changes from Boom 2.02 are included.

Changes since 1.02
  I have added two new commandline options:
    -fullscr     Forces fullscreen-mode at startup if it's available
    -nofullscr   Forces window-mode at startup

  The latest source change in D_DEH.C is included.

  When switching from fullscreen to window-mode the palette is now
  set.

  I have rewritten the soundcode 5 or more times, now it seems to
  work as I wanted it.

  I have included a small perl-script to extract the strings changes
  in BEX-format out of the dehout.txt file.

Changes since 1.01
  Support for TNT.WAD and PLUTONIA.WAD from Final DOOM. Now the
  correct level names and end texts are displayed.

  If you switched from window-mode to fullscreen-mode, it was saved
  in the config file. If you switched from fullscree-mode to
  window-mode it was not saved in the config file.

  I changed a few things, so now Visual C prints no warning messages
  if it compiles.

  The temporary midifile is now called "prboom.mid" instead of "boom.mid".