Enhanced Boom support for DCK

These copies of doom17.dat and doom19.dat replace the ones which come with
DCK2.2-f and DCK3.*, respectively, and they add most of the linedef, thing,
and sector types new to Boom, except for the "generalized" linedef types
(ones whose function is based on various bitfields in the linedef's type).

DCK2.2-f and later versions have bugs which made it difficult to add support
for Boom's new linedef types:

1) Both DCK2.2-f and DCK3.62 have a limit on the number of linedef types they
can handle at a time, which makes Boom have too many linedef types. Some of
the entries in doom17.dat and doom19.dat are thus commented out -- they were
chosen based on their expected usefulness. When there are too many linedef
types, DCK2.2-f says so, but DCK3.62 prints a cryptic exception traceback.

2) All versions of DCK starting with 3.0, but not DCK2.2-f, have a bug where
the largest linedef type that DCK can process correctly is 255. Somewhere in
DCK3.0 and later, the linedef type is being truncated to a single byte and
thus it becomes reduced MOD 256 (256=0, 257=1, etc.). If you edit wads with
DCK3.0 or later, linedef types >= 256 will be ruined if the wad is saved. The
only workaround is to use DCK2.2-f, or to only use linedef types < 256. Boom
has tried to keep as many useful linedef types under 256 as possible, the
most notable exception being 260 (translucency).

To make use of the new linedef, thing, and sector types available in Boom,
copy either doom17.dat or doom19.dat into your DCK directory, overwriting
the original (DCK2.2-f uses doom17.dat; later versions use doom19.dat).

WATERMAP.WAD is included to allow you to enter WATERMAP as a texture name
for underwater colormap effects. Add WATERMAP.WAD to DCK's list of texture
resources, and WATERMAP will be allowed to be entered as a texture name.
Other colormap names, as well as translucency filter names (see boomref.txt),
may need to be added to a wad as fake texture names, if DCK is to allow you
to enter them in sidedefs.

If you are unfamiliar with DCK2.2-f, it's the last freeware version of DCK,
and it is preferred over later versions by many wad authors including myself.
There is a copy of DCK2.2-f on my web page.

Lee Killough
http://classicgaming.com/doom/
http://www.teamtnt.com
